Conductor Docs (#320)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/production/self-hosting/workflow-recovery.md

---
sidebar_position: 50
title: Workflow Recovery
---

When the execution of a durable workflow is interrupted (for example, if its executor is restarted, interrupted, or crashes), another executor must recover the workflow and resume its execution.
To prevent duplicate work, it is important to detect interruptions promptly and to recover each workflow only once.
This guide describes how to manage workflow recovery in a production environment.

> ## Managing Recovery

Reviewer: imho the ordering of these sections is repeating the mistake of not putting Transact first.

- Single server recovery in Transact
- Multiple servers recovery in Transact -- and key concerns
- Recovery with Conductor -- and how it handles the key concerns above

### Recovery With Conductor

If your application is connected to [DBOS Conductor](./conductor.md), workflow recovery is automatic.

> When Conductor detects that an executor is unhealthy, it automatically signals another executor to recover its workflows.

Reviewer: What does `unhealthy` mean?

### Recovery On A Single Server

> If hosting an application on a single server without Conductor, each time you restart your application's process, it recovers all workflows that were executing before the restart (all `PENDING` workflows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If hosting an application on a single server without Conductor, each time you restart your application's process, DBOS Transact recovers all workflows that were executing before the restart (all `PENDING` workflows).
```
